Suggestions for Winter Semester Final Examination, AY :  2023
28.11.2023

1. Draw the Importance of Eemaan in Al-Qadaa’ Wal Qadar (Divine Preordainment) in Islam?
2. Write short Notes on- Tashbeeh, Tahreef, ta’teel.
3. Illustrate the elements that should be avoided in Tawhidul Asma Was Sifat?
4. Describe Hajj as a pillar of Islam.
5. Why do we worship Allah even if Worship doesn't benefit Him? 
6. "An act of disobedience cannot be changed into an act of obedience simply due to a good intention", Discuss the fact according to the concept of etiquette in Islam.
7. Mention the Sayings of "Hasan Basri" and "Abdullah bin Mubaarak" regarding good characters.
8. What to do when you are in Fear of missing a funeral or ‘Eid prayer? Explain.
9. In which Specific Part of Purification (Wadu/Gusl/Tayammum) making Niyyat (Intention) is Farz? Explain why? 
10. Mention the Types of Hajj.
11. Write Notes on:  Ihraam, Mahram, Meeqaat, Hajr-al-Aswad (Black Stone), Zamzam Well, Sa'ee, Tawaf.  
12. Extract the facts or key features of the Islamic Economy from the three definitions discussed in the class.
13. How is Riba harmful to the economy? Explain briefly.
14. What are the Distinguishing Features of the Islamic Penal System?
15. Write Notes on: Hadd, Qisas, Ta’zir.
16. How do you glorify Fasting and the month of Ramadan in your Eye?
17. “Whoever can guarantee (the chastity of) what is between his two jaw-bones and what is between his two legs, I guarantee Paradise for him.” (Bukhari), Explain.
18. “if one does not abandon from falsehood and other actions like it, God has no need that one should abandon one's food and drink” (Bukhari), How to apply the Concept of Fasting is your Daily Life according to this Hadith . 
19. Compare ‘Ibn Khaldun’ and his book ‘Muqaddimah’ (the prolegomena) with ‘Adam smith’ and his book ‘wealth of the Nation’.      
20. “Man is free and has free will to choose”- How to apply the ‘Concept of Reward, Crime & Punishment’ in your life according to the Quran and Sunnah.
21. Define Nisab and Masaarif with lexical explanations.
22. Write down the concept of Fornication and Adultery in Islam.
23. Discuss the Islamic Approach to Combating Crime.
24. “Mumin’s matter is surprising”, How and why?
25. Where are we from and where we are going to?
26. Write short Note on- Tahazzud, Tarawih, Qiyamull Layl, Sahri and Iftar, I’tikaf.
27. “Surely prayer keeps (one) away from indecency and evil - Sura Ankabut; [29:45] - How prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing in society?
28. Write short notes on the following: Murabaha, Mudarabah and Musharakah, Istisna and Salam, Bai Muajjal.
29. Draw the difference between Capitalist, Socialist and Islamic economic point of view.
30. What is the Difference between FUQA'RAA and MASAAKEEN in Zakah? 
-------------------------------------------------